$DOC LA010190-0001
$TITLE
NEW YEAR'S DAY
$TEXT
Today is New Year's Day. The following will be closed:
MAIL: All post offices will be closed and no mail will be delivered.
BANKS: Most banks and savings and loan institutions will be closed.
COURTS: All courts will be closed.
SCHOOLS: Most public schools in Los Angeles County -- including schools in the
Los Angeles Unified School District -- are closed until Jan. 2
GOVERNMENT: All federal, state, county and municipal offices -- except those
providing emergency services, will be closed.
$DOC LA010190-0002
$TITLE
COUNTY'S PLAN IS GARBAGE;
TRASH DISPOSAL: IF SOMETHING ISN'T DONE QUICKLY, LOS ANGELES CITY RESIDENTS
WILL END UP MAKING UNJUSTIFIED CONCESSIONS.
$TEXT
The County of Los Angeles, which has historically embraced some of the nation's
sharpest land swindles, is out to break new ground in its legacy of shady
real-estate deals.
Purportedly acting to provide a badly needed garbage facility, the Board of
Supervisors has secretly approved a plan that will enrich the county
bureaucracy and a high-powered developer at the expense of Los Angeles city
taxpayers and Santa Monica Mountains park users. Because the City Council
tentatively approved the plan with little public notice or review, aggressive
citizen action is needed to keep it from becoming reality.
The supervisors' plan begins with a worthy enough goal: to construct a readily
accessible, environmentally sound garbage-disposal facility that can meet
countywide needs for half a century. The location, Elsmere Canyon, lies in the
San Gabriel Mountains just north of the city-county line and along the Antelope
Valley Freeway. Virtually all the experts agree that Elsmere is the appropriate
place for the county's major disposal facility.
Rather than seize with principle this opportunity to meet public needs, the
supervisors' program threatens establishment of the dump by attaching illegal
and unwise conditions to Elsmere's use by all county residents. Like an
entrepreneur in control of a hot property, the county sees Elsmere as an
opportunity to maximize profits, broaden its options for future trash disposal
and realize revenge against an old adversary, the city. Taking advantage of its
public power to condemn the Elsmere land, the county seeks to extort
unjustified concessions from city residents.
In particular, the supervisors demand as a condition of dumping Los Angeles
city garbage in Elsmere Canyon:
-- That dumping in Lopez Canyon be expanded and continued until 1996, even
though the site violates state standards;
-- That dumping in Sunshine Canyon also be expanded, even though the operation
violates a 25-year-old city permit;
-- That the city pay an extra "tribute" of at least $1 dollar a ton for
dumping at Elsmere that can be increased at the sole discretion of the county
and its Sanitation District;
-- That Rustic and Sullivan canyons in the Santa Monica Mountains be sold at
market value, rather than released to park agencies at acquisition costs, as
state law requires. (The sites are no longer suitable for dumping but held in
trust by the county Sanitation District for public recreation.)
-- That Mission Canyon, county-owned under the same trusteeship as Rustic and
Sullivan canyons, not be released for recreational use but be sold to developer
Ray Watt, providing necessary access to his ambitious and adjacent development.
Extortion of the city is the only glue holding together the Elsmere plan.
County supervisors have been angry ever since the city closed the county's
Mission Canyon garbage site in 1981. The city used its land-use authority to
end dumping at the facility, located within city limits, citing harm done to
surrounding neighbors. In response, the county has prohibited the city from
dumping garbage at county sites open to other municipalities.
This policy of blackmail, designed to force the city to place new garbage dumps
within its borders, regardless of the environmental consequences, did not work
so long as existing city facilities had not reached capacity. But with Lopez
and Sunshine canyons nearing their limits, the extortion becomes more
effective.
Alternative solutions exist that would create a garbage facility for all county
residents, expand recreational opportunities in the Santa Monica Mountains and
end existing conflicts over garbage dumping next to established neighborhoods:
-- The Elsmere facility, designed to prevent harm to existing neighbors,
should be established as soon as possible;
-- Elsmere should be open at uniform fees to all residents;
-- Garbage dumping in Lopez and Sunshine canyons should terminate when current
permits expire;
-- Rustic, Sullivan and Mission canyons should be transferred to the Santa
Monica Mountains Conservancy for recreation at acquisition cost;
-- Elsmere's uniform disposal fees should be used to reimburse the county and
its Sanitation District for the transfer of the canyons, because all county
residents will benefit from this new parkland;
-- The state attorney general should immediately prosecute county officials
who maintain the policy of extortion.
Now that the county's secretly formulated plan has been exposed, citizens and
their representatives at City Hall can force a publicly acceptable substitute.
As shown by its vote last month to require separation of household trash, the
City Council can make sound policy. Los Angeles citizens and their council must
undo the county's attempted swindle of public resources.
$DOC LA010190-0003
$TITLE
ROMANIAN REBUILDING
$TEXT
The deaths of thousands of people in Timisoara and Bucharest were not in vain.
The extent of the tyranny that ruled Romania is beyond belief.
For such a monstrosity to be overcome so fast is in itself a miracle.
The battle is hardly over; although the cancerous core of the leadership is
gone, the weight of the past must be now reshaped into a future. This could be
the first time in recent history that America and the Soviet Union cooperate in
the rebuilding of a shattered state and economy.
Romania needs all the help we can offer: Advisers from a mutual pool of
human/technological resources provided through the United Nations and other
international bodies. An unprecedented opportunity is now presenting itself; a
global shift towards increased cooperation between the East and West on many
levels previously thought impossible.
The bloody failure of the police state run by Ceausescu could have become a
drawn-out civil war. Instead, it seems to be headed in a positive direction.
We can help Romania and Eastern Europe rebuild their economies, and work
together towards a positive future. There are astounding implications for world
peace and commerce, two faces of the same dream.
MIHAI MANOLIU
Torrance
Mihai Manoliu is a Romanian refugee and American writer.
$DOC LA010190-0004
$TITLE
LEGALIZING ILLICIT DRUGS
$TEXT
Three cheers for Rep. George W. Crockett (D-Mich.), columnist William F.
Buckley, former Secretary of State George Schultz, U.S. District Judge Robert
Sweet and Baltimore Mayor Kurt Schmoke. While countless other public officials
exploit the drug problem for personal political advantage, they have
unselfishly championed the only rational, effective alternative to the
currently disastrous situation: legalization.
Supply does not create demand. Demand creates supply. We can spend any amount
of money trying to intercept substances. We can impose any penalty on the
dealers and users. We can completely erode the civil rights of our citizens.
But as long as someone is willing to pay for a commodity, someone will be
willing to supply that commodity; and the more risk the suppliers assume, the
greater their profits will be. This is basic economics, simple human nature and
can not be altered by legislation.
What we can do is eliminate international drug lords, terrorism, corruption and
criminal empires by taking the profit out of the equation. By shattering their
market, we can literally shut down these drug mafias overnight.
We can also redirect our efforts and resources toward diminishing the demand
for drugs by accurately publicizing the health risks inherent to the user.
Former Surgeon General Koop has demonstrated that the public can be positively
influenced in terms of substance abuse. And he didn't require a $9 billion
budget to do it.
By initiating serious discussion of the decriminalization issue, Messrs.
Crockett, Buckley, Schultz, Sweet and Schmoke have done far more to protect our
youth from the drug problem than all the rest of the "drug warriors" combined.
RANDY YOUNG
Santa Ana
$DOC LA010190-0005
$TITLE
U.S. CARS
$TEXT
Surprise. Domestic auto sales are in a slump.
I submit a partial list of possible reasons why:
My 1985 Dodge Shelby Charger has had the brakes fail, the alternator fail, the
timing belt fail, the computer fail, the headlights fail, the fuel system fail,
the radio fail, the tachometer fail, the cooling system fail, the
air-conditioning system fail, the battery fail (twice), the hatch lifters fail
and the paint fail.
Then there is the turbo, lurking under the hood for the warranty to expire amid
a flurry of repair dollars.
Is there any question why the American public is giving pause before purchasing
a domestic automobile that is (1) overpriced to start with, (2) unreliable and
will need inevitable/expensive repair of even basic systems and (3) will lose
resale value faster than back issues of Proctology Digest?
DANIEL A. KOBLOSH
Redondo Beach
$DOC LA010190-0006
$TITLE
LEGALIZING ILLICIT DRUGS
$TEXT
William Kunstler (Op-Ed, Dec. 15, "Why Not Sell at the Local Pharmacy?")
continues the cry for drug legalization. Typically he raises the specter of
violence, illicit profits, etc. and reaches the perfectly logical conclusion
that prohibition doesn't work.
Certainly, no thinking person would disagree with him. He fails, however, to
point out that legalization (of alcohol, caffeine and nicotine) is hardly a
howling success.
Since our society has been so unsuccessful in "educating and treating" the
current crop of boozers, smokers and coffee drinkers, what in the world makes
Kunstler and all the rest think that, once legalized, the control of the much
more addictive and psychoactive substances such as cocaine, marijuana and
heroin will be so simple?
W. S. McKANE
Fullerton
$DOC LA010190-0007
$TITLE
POP GOES THE REFUND
$TEXT
Pennies will be closer to nickels today for thrifty consumers who recycle their
empty soda and beer containers. A new state law will boost the ineffective
one-cent refund to a nickel for two small cans or one large bottle.
The higher refunds will make recycling a little more rewarding.
Californians have bothered to return barely half of their empties to recycling
depots at nearby supermarkets or to a state-certified recycling centers since
the bottle law took effect just over two years ago. Even environmentally minded
consumers have argued that a penny back wasn't worth the trouble.
The stronger incentive takes effect today. An empty two-liter bottle, glass or
plastic, is worth five cents. Also, worth a nickel are two cans or bottles that
contain less than 24 ounces. Five cents, the standard reward in states that
have successful bottle laws, ought to prove persuasive.
Californians drink 12 billion bottles and cans of soda or beer in a typical
year. The empties choke landfills -- and that's when the cans and bottles are
properly disposed. Many are just tossed away by litterbugs, blighting beaches,
parks and roads. Maybe a nickel will change their bad habits.
Recycling can take some pressure off the distressed environment. Consumers who
take the time to return their empties deserve their reward.
$DOC LA010190-0008
$TITLE
TRIBUTE TO A WAR HERO
$TEXT
Not too long ago many Americans believed marijuana was no more harmful than
tobacco, and a presidential adviser described cocaine as "probably the most
benign of illicit drugs currently in widespread use . . ." Back then, police
officers fought a dangerous, lonely and unappreciated war against drugs. Los
Angeles Police Officer Kelly Key was one of its troopers.
He was paralyzed nearly two decades ago by a bullet fired while he tried to
serve a search warrant on a suspected cocaine dealer. Key died last week,
having spent the rest of his life in a wheelchair from which he taught
youngsters the dangers of drugs and other temptations of the streets.
A quadriplegic, he still volunteered three days a week at the Gwen Bolden
Foundation, an after-school counseling program in a rough neighborhood south of
downtown Los Angeles. Key was a tutor and a mentor, often for boys with no
other man in their lives. He bought book-packs, shoes and treated youngsters to
lunch, which was for many their first experience in a restaurant. He quietly
did things to teach youngsters to feel good about themselves. There was no
better role model in the war against drugs.
Drug use has exploded exponentially since a bullet cut short Key's once-bright
police career in 1970. Now it destroys lives, families and communities
wholesale. As the terror of the nightmare grows, more officers like Key risk
their lives. But, as law enforcement leaders are beginning to recognize, the
war must be waged with equal fervor against the underlying social causes that
make illicit drugs so alluring for so many. Prevention must be as important as
enforcement.
Kelly Key, who turned 49 the day before he died, will be buried Tuesday with
full Police Department honors. His tombstone should read: Pioneer and Hero in
the War Against Drugs.
